========================================================================
README for Oculus Rift CV1 camera viewer
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 Oliver Kreylos
========================================================================

Overview
========

The Oculus Rift CV1 camera viewer is a simple graphical utility to view
a live video feed from an Oculus Rift CV1 tracking camera. It is a pure
userland application, talking to a camera device through its low-level
USB interface, and does not require any custom kernel modules.

The Oculus Rift CV1 camera viewer is based on the Vrui VR development
toolkit, version 4.6-005 or later. It runs on Linux operating systems.

Installation
============

First, install the Vrui VR development toolkit. It can be downloaded
from http://idav.ucdavis.edu/~okreylos/ResDev/Vrui/LinkDownload.html .
The easiest way to install Vrui is to use one of the installation
scripts found on the download page linked above.

Second, open a terminal window and change into the directory containing
this README file. Then run the following commands (the "$" indicates a
terminal prompt and must not be typed in):

$ make

If you installed Vrui into a different location than /usr/local in the
first step, you need to pass Vrui's location to the make command like
so:

$ make VRUI_MAKEDIR=<Vrui install directory>/share/make

where <Vrui install directory> is Vrui's installation directory, e.g.,
/opt/Vrui-4.6 .

Use
===

Installation creates a "bin" directory inside the directory containing
this README file, which contains a single executable,
"OculusRiftCV1CameraViewer." To run the program, open a terminal window,
change into the directory containing this README file, and run:

$ ./bin/OculusRiftCV1CameraViewer

This will open a window showing a live feed from the first connected
Oculus Rift CV1 tracking camera. You can pan the image by holding the
"z" key and moving the mouse, and zoom the image either by holding the
left mouse button and the "z" key and moving the mouse up or down, or by
rolling the mouse wheel. You can reset the view by holding the "Windows"
key and pressing the "Home" key. You can exit from the program by
pressing the "Esc" key, or by closing the window.

The program understands optional command line arguments:

./bin/OculusRiftCV1CameraViewer [<camera index>] [-auto] [-gain <gain>]
                                [-exposure <exposure>]

[<camera index>]: Zero-based index of the camera from which to capture
        video.

[-auto]: Enable automatic exposure and gain control.

[-gain <gain>]: Specify a global gain factor between 0 and 255

[-exposure <exposure>]: Specify an exposure time in multiples of pixel
        rows. Exposure time can be longer than the height of a video
        frame (960), which will increase brightness at the cost of frame
        rate. In IR-dark environments, high exposure times (>10000)
        might be necessary.

Example command line:

$ ./bin/OculusRiftCV1CameraViewer 1 -gain 128 -exposure 800

will stream video from the second connected camera, using a global gain
of 128 and an exposure time of 800 lines.
